Add expanded resource usage documentation (#912)
spiceai/docs: website/docs/components/data-accelerators/duckdb.md

sidebar_position: 3
---

The DuckDB Data Accelerator helps improve query performance by using [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/), an embedded analytical database engine optimized for efficient data processing.

It supports in-memory and file-based operation modes, enabling workloads that exceed available memory and optionally providing persistent storage for datasets.

To enable DuckDB acceleration, set the dataset's `acceleration.engine` to `duckdb`:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: spice.ai:path.to.my_dataset
    name: my_dataset
    acceleration:
      engine: duckdb
      mode: file
```

## Modes

### Memory Mode

By default, DuckDB acceleration uses `mode: memory`, loading datasets into memory.

### File Mode

> When using `mode: file`, datasets are stored in a DuckDB file on disk in the `.spice/data` directory. For datasets intended to be joined, set the same `duckdb_file` path for all related datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using `mode: file`, datasets are stored by default in a DuckDB file on disk in the `.spice/data` directory relative to the spicepod.yaml. Specify the `duckdb_file` parameter to store the DuckDB file in a different location. For datasets intended to be joined, set the same `duckdb_file` path for all related datasets.
```

## Configuration Parameters

DuckDB acceleration supports the following optional parameters under `acceleration.params`:

> - `duckdb_file` (string, default: none): Path to the DuckDB database file. Required if `mode` is set to `file`. If the file does not exist, Spice creates it automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `duckdb_file` (string, default:`.spice/data/accelerated_duckdb.db`): Path to the DuckDB database file. Applies if `mode` is set to `file`. If the file does not exist, Spice creates it automatically.
```
